Copy over "everything" topic (#6)
typography-interaction-2324/typography-interaction-2324.github.io: topic/everything/index.md

---

## What about _the web_?

### When was the _web_ invented?

{% include details.html summary='1969 or 1989?' content='1989!' class='four-below' %}

{% include figure.html src='tim.jpg' caption='Our guy Tim.' credit='https://cds.cern.ch/images/CERN-GE-9407011-31' %}

Tim Berners-Lee, a British academic and scientist, invented the _World Wide Web_ (WWW) with his team while working at [CERN in 1989](https://home.cern/science/computing/birth-web/short-history-web). It was developed on top of TCP/IP as a standard way to connect documents, living on different computers in different places, via _hypertext_ links.

{% include figure.html src='web.png' caption='The cover of the original proposal, visualizing the idea of “hypertext.”' credit='https://cds.cern.ch/record/1405411/files/ARCH-WWW-4-010.pdf' %}

Their proposal had four components:

- A text file format to represent the documents: the _HyperText Markup Language_ (HTML)
- The rules for exchanging these documents: the _HyperText Transfer Protocol_ (HTTP)
- A program to display (and edit) these documents: the first _web browser_ (called WorldWideWeb)

> - Software that gives access to the documents: the _server_ (an early version of Apache/httpd)

Author: I believe this is incorrect. AFAICT CERNs `httpd` (later known as W3C httpd) is unrelated to Apache. Apache's HTTP server is based on NCSA's HTTPd which is unrelated to CERN HTTPd

{% include figure.html src='amazon.gif' caption='1995\. They used to sell books, if you can believe it.' credit='https://www.versionmuseum.com/history-of/amazon-website' %}

{% include figure.html src='google.png' caption='1998\. We eventually got search engines.' credit='https://www.webdesignmuseum.org/gallery/google-1998' %}

{% include figure.html src='facebook.png' caption='2004\. And social networks.' credit='https://www.webdesignmuseum.org/gallery/google-1998' %}

> The dream behind the Web is of a common information space in which we communicate by sharing information. Its universality is essential: the fact that a hypertext link can point to anything, be it personal, local or global, be it draft or highly polished.
> {: .quote }

<cite>[Tim Berners-Lee](https://www.scienceandmediamuseum.org.uk/objects-and-stories/short-history-internet)</cite>

---

## So what are _web pages_?

{: .left }

{% capture aside %}

{% include figure.html src='org.png' %}
{% include figure.html src='screens.jpg' %}
{% include figure.html src='slim.png' %}
{% include figure.html src='kiosk.png' %}
{% include figure.html src='betye.jpg' %}

> {% include figure.html src='turner.jpg' caption='Eric and I used to work at MoMA. These are [all](https://moma.org) [web](https://www.moma.org/screens/on_view/west?floor=1&contain=true) [pages](https://www.moma.org/screens/promo/tickets?contain=true).' %}

Author: Update "Eric and I"

> {: .quote }

<cite>[Steve Jobs](https://www.nytimes.com/2003/11/30/magazine/the-guts-of-a-new-machine.html)</cite>

### These days, apps are often web pages too

{% include figure.html src='electron.png' caption='We’ll be using a couple of these.' %}

All these desktop “apps” are built in [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org)—and so are really just web pages inside a slim, platform-native wrapper. (Essentially, a single-website browser.)

The core application only has to be written once, instead of rewritten for each platform. And why design it all again? (Designers are expensive!) Why hire Windows and Mac devs when you can just hire web devs? …then why hire iOS or Android devs, either? (Developers are even more expensive!) So many companies take approach, for cross-platform development.

{% include figure.html src='mobile.png' %}

These mobile “apps” are all built with [React Native](https://reactnative.dev), following a similar paradigm. The app is really just a web view, and every screen within is a web page.

### It’s increasingly just JS, behind the scenes

> JavaScript began as a client-side (on your computer), front-end language running in the browser. But now with engines like [V8](https://v8.dev) and environments like [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/), JS has moved to server-side (on the remote computer) functionality previously dominated by scripting languages like [ASP](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjEtfa8nc31AhUomeAKHd_ABUQQFnoECE8QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fdotnet.microsoft.com%2Fen-us%2Flearn%2Faspnet%2Fwhat-is-aspnet&usg=AOvVaw1D_8ap9ArdBqxmTX1ce1xL), [Perl](https://www.perl.org), [PHP](https://www.php.net), [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/).

Author: V8 itself is not server-side specific, but rather the JS engine built for Chromium. Node.js used this open source Chromium engine to create the server-side specific runtime. 

```suggestion
JavaScript began as a client-side (on your computer), front-end language running in the browser. But now with runtime environments like [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), [Deno](https://deno.land), and [Bun](https://bun.sh/), JS has moved to server-side (on the remote computer) functionality previously dominated by scripting languages like [ASP](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/aspnet/what-is-aspnet), [Perl](https://www.perl.org), [PHP](https://www.php.net), and [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/).
```

{% comment %} Visual? {% endcomment %}

This means that JavaScript doesn’t just run _in_ a webpage you’re looking at—it often now actually _builds_ the page itself. It might even send you the _packets_. More and more, JS isn’t a *part* of the stack so much as it really *is* the stack.

> This “javascript everywhere” movement means that the tendrils of the web can encompass many non-web-page uses. Maybe it is in an app, maybe a headless data API, maybe a [hardware integration](https://www.theverge.com/2022/8/18/23206110/james-webb-space-telescope-javascript-jwst-instrument-control), maybe it is even something entirely _offline_—but it is still web technologies, most of the way down.

Author: ```suggestion
This “JavaScript everywhere” movement means that the tendrils of the web can encompass many non-web-page uses. Maybe it is in an app, maybe a headless data API, maybe a [hardware integration](https://www.theverge.com/2022/8/18/23206110/james-webb-space-telescope-javascript-jwst-instrument-control), maybe it is even something entirely _offline_—but it is still web technologies, most of the way down.
```

### Even things that aren’t web pages are _web-page-like_

> In the coming weeks we are going to dive properly into HTML, CSS, and JS—the fabric of web pages. Let’s try and also think of these—more conceptually and semantically—as _content_, _form_, and _function_. (Or in another way, _skeleton_, _skin_, and _muscles._)

Author: Maybe we can introduce Progressive Enhancement here? I love the peanut (content/html), chocolate (presentation/html), (interaction/js) analogy from https://alistapart.com/article/understandingprogressiveenhancement/
